New pages: missing checkvalidity() and reportvalidity() API method pages (#35546)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmltextareaelement/checkvalidity/index.md

---

> title: "HTMLTextareaElement: checkValidity() method"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "HTMLTextAreaElement: checkValidity() method"
```

Ditto for all other references

short-title: checkValidity()
slug: Web/API/HTMLTextAreaElement/checkValidity
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.HTMLTextAreaElement.checkValidity
---

{{APIRef("Web Components")}}

The **`checkValidity()`** method of the {{domxref("HTMLTextAreaElement")}} interface checks if the {{HTMLElement("textarea")}} element meets all of the [constraint validation](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Constraint_validation) rules applied to it.

> The method returns `false` if the `<textarea>` value does not meet all the validation constraints applied to it or if the element has a custom validation message set, and `true` if if the element does meet all of the constraints applied and no custom validity message is set or it is set to the empty string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method returns `false` if the `<textarea>` value does not meet all the validation constraints applied to it or if the element has a custom validation message set, and `true` otherwise.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
checkValidity()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A boolean value.

## Examples

In the following example, calling `checkValidity()` returns either `true` or `false`.

```js

> let element = document.getElementById("myTextArea");

Author: ```suggestion
const element = document.getElementById("myTextArea");
```
